# SwiftbotJava
My task was to implement a Java computer program to move a robot(Swiftbot) in a specific routine in which steps consist of only forward and 90-degrees rotation movements. The program will serve as a number convertor from decimal to binary, hexadecimal and octal. The binary, hexadecimal and octal equivalents of this decimal number are used to control the movements of the robot(Swiftbot). This code uses an API provided by my univeristy to control the robot, this code was also written on Eclpise using java. This code also uses cmd prompt to show outputs.

This description includes the required core functionalities of the program. To start the program, the user should press button ‘A’ on the Swiftbot.The Swiftbot’s behaviour is determined by the user input. When the program starts it should prompt the user to  scan a QR code which contains two values. The two values mustbe separatedby acolon symbol(:) and encoded in the following order: "Value_1:Value_2" The first value (Value_1) is a decimal number which should be positive and should not exceed 100. The second value (Value_2) is a colour. The program should accept only 4 colours as valid input and the values are Red, Green, Blue and White. After scanning the QR code, the program should display the scanned inputs to the user.

For example, "100:Red" should be interpreted as a decimal value of 100 and colour red. Next, the program should convert this decimal number into the octal, hexadecimal and binary equivalents. These numbers will be used as follows to create the movement. The speed of the Swiftbot is determined by the octal equivalent. If the octal number is less than 50, the speed should be set to octal number +50. If the octal number exceeds the maximum speed limit of the wheels of the Swiftbot, the speed should be set to the maximum limit of Swiftbot. The movement (forward and 90-degrees rotation) will be determined by the binary equivalent of the given decimal number. Reading the binary number from right to left one digit at a time, when the digit is ‘1’ the Swiftbot should move forward and turn 90-degrees clockwise (to its relative position) and stop. When the digit is ‘0’ the Swiftbot should move forward and turn 90-degrees anti-clockwise (to its relative position) and stop.The duration of the forward movement is decided by the hexadecimal equivalent of the given decimal number. The Swiftbot should move for 1 second if the hexadecimal number is single-digit, or for 2 seconds if the hexadecimal is double-digit. Before the Swiftbot starts moving, it should blink the underlights in the colour  specified by the user in value 2(Value_2). After completing the  movement the  Swiftbot should blink its underlights in the same colour.The program should print (to the console) the current time in HH:MM:SS format  before and after it completes the movement.

For example, if the user QR code reads ‘100:Red'. The binary equivalent is ‘1100100’, the hexadecimal is ‘64’, and the octal is ‘144’. Swiftbot blinks underlights in red. Then, the Swiftbot should move forward for 2 seconds and turn 90-degrees anti-clockwise(and stop), forward for 2 seconds and turn 90-degrees anti-clockwise(and  stop),forward for 2 secondsand turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), forward for 2 eeconds and turn 90-degrees anti-clockwise(and stop), forward for 2 seconds and turn 90-degrees anti-clockwise(and stop), forward for 2 seconds and turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), forward for 2 seconds and turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), at speed 100. Swiftbot then blinks underlights in red.

Here is another example: the user QR code reads '15:white' The  binary equivalent is ‘1111’, hexadecimal is ‘F’ and the octal is ‘17’. The Swiftbot is expected move as follows: Swiftbot blinks underlights in white. Then, the Swiftbot should move forward for 1 second and turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), forward for 1 second and turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), forward for 1 second and turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), forward for 1 second and turn 90-degrees clockwise(and stop), at speed 67. Swiftbot then blinks underlights in white. After completing a movement, the user should be prompted to scan another QR code. The user may respond yes by pressing the ‘Y’ button on the Swiftbot and the program should prompt the user to scan a QR code. If the user responds no by pressing ‘X’ button on the Swiftbot, the program should terminate. The program incorporates a ‘proper’ algorithm for doing the conversion and does NOT use any Java built-in methods to do the conversion. This program is implemented using a command line user interface (input and output printed in  
the command prompt console).The program makes appropriate error checks and exception handling in order to ensure that the input values are within the valid range specified in the task description. Invalid input should be rejected, and the program should display appropriate error messages and ask the user for new input. The software is designed in such a way that it enhances user experience (i.e. ease of use).

(Original file contains build.xml and other files to be able to run on command prompt using eclipse ant build)
